# CAFF-Teaching-Materials

This repository includes teaching materials for high school and undergraduate teaching labs developed by the NSF Center for Adapting Flaws into Features. These labs largely focus on hands on spectroscopy-based activities that introduce students to topics relevant to physical chemistry and/or data analysis. A summary of current labs is included below. Relevant teaching materials and code for each lab are included in the lab folders. 

## Lab 1: Introduction to Spectroscopy and Data Science – How many dyes are in a collection of colorful samples? 

This lab aims to introduce students to the connection between chemical measurements and data science techniques. In parts I and II of the lab (day 1), students build their own spectrometers and use it to collect absorbance spectra of common food dyes. For part III (day 2), students collect data on 5 colorful samples, which contain different ratios of an unknown number of dyes. Part IV (day 2 and post-lab assignment), students apply singular value decomposition using a simple pre-written python code to determine the number of unknown dyes, and compare their results to data collected on a commercial UV-vis. An optional part V of this lab involves student presentations as an end of semester project, where students choose a topic related to lab and give a group presentation. Required lab time ranges from ~4 - 6 hours depending on time dedicated to pre-lab lectures and guided activities (e.g., Excel tutorials, guided SVD analysis). 
